# Project Ideas

## Natural Language Processing

Fraternity Email Analysis
* Problem Statement: fraternities exhibit some pretty unusual linguistic phenomena that characterize this often satyrized subset of american culture. 
* Data: I have been on my fraternity's list serve for 6 years, and have access to every email that has been sent to the fraternity at large during that time (which is a lot). I need a way to extract the data from gmail without admin access (no formal Google data dump - need a hack).
* Output: I hope to produce a analysis of the evolution of various linguistic memes in the fraternity over this time and draw a parallel to computational linguistics literature. On the ligher side of things, I could also produce a "Frat Translation App" or "Frat Autocorrect".

Hip Hop Lyric Analysis
* same as above project but using hip hop lyric corpus


## Machine Learning

Who You Know Funding Prediction
* Problem Statement: Getting funding for your startup is a lot about who you know. It would be interesting to predict the likelihood a founder receives funding based on the number and quality of connections to prominent tech figures - via Twitter and/or LinkedIn
* Data: I could use the Twitter API to pull information on who is following who in tech. The Klout API also has information on influencers. W
* Output: A leaderboard of founders most likely to raise money that is generated by a machine learning model

Tech Call Outs In Hip Hop
* Problem Statement: How long does it take for consumer tech companies to get called out in hip hop lyrics after reaching unicorn status?
* Data: Corpus of hip hop lyrics going back to 2000 and list of consumer tech companies and dates they reached unicorn status
* Output: graph of hip hop lyric mentions by consumer tech company and a model to predicting future call outs

Predict Shows Selling Out (and ticket price fluxuations)
* Problem Statement: Successful music venues book to exactly 100% capacity - no more, no less - ideally for multiple nights a week. Based on artists growth data by geographic/demographic can we predict which of their shows will sell out?
* Data: Eventbrite, Songkik, Ticketmaster, etc data with growth data from soundcloud or echonest
* Output: Model to predict shows selling out - extra points if it can model price dynamics of tickets sold on stubhub.

Vocal extraction via melody prediction
* Problem Statement: Extracting vocals from music is extremely difficult, but is extremeley important with the growing remix culture in music. can we extract vocals from music by making predictions about melodies?
* Data: echonest api? soundcloud api
* Output: First - a model that taken a song (likely a vocally-driven song), can output a midi file of the main melody. Second - taken a song, extract the vocal part.

Top 10 app store prediction
* Problem Statement: Can we predict the likelihood an app will make it to the top 10 in the app store in the next 3 months given various data points
* Data: App Annie - historical metrics on app store rank, MAU, downloads, etc.
* Output: Model that gives a likelihood rating of an app given its info.

ID Endangered Whales
* https://www.kaggle.com/c/noaa-right-whale-recognition
* I heart whales :)

Facial Recognition
* https://www.kaggle.com/c/facial-keypoints-detection
* Related to project I proposed a year ago: https://medium.com/@bg/how-to-monetize-tinder-for-good-or-evil-dac6917cdb37

Predict Hitting #1 on Product Hunt
* Problem Statement: Product Hunt is important for launching any product, but the sorting algorithm is opaque. Can we predict what apps get to the #1 spot?
* Data: Product Hunt API and Twitter API
* Output: Feautures of #1 spot entries and model to predict.







